---
layout: post
title: "Impact Lite Survey - Rakai, 2012"
tag: [climate change, crop, farming system, food security]
category: [uganda]
---

{% include _toc.html %}
{% include JB/setup %}


## Description
---
The CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS) is a 10-year research initiative that seeks to overcome the threats to agriculture and food security in a changing climate, exploring new ways of helping vulnerable rural communities adjust to global changes in climate.

The objective of this survey is to capture within-site variability on key livelihood indicators that could be used for a range of analysis including the modelling of impact of adaptation and mitigation strategies on livelihoods, food security and the environment. Furthermore, the collection of standard indicators across sites could derive suitable parameters for regional integrated assessments. 

This dataset contains 200 households from the Rakai Site. For more information please view the [ILRI source page](1).

### Location / Time Coverage
Country: Uganda  
Time Frame: 2012

### Citation / Source
Producer: The CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security  

Silvestri, Silvia; Rufino, Mariana; Quiros, Carlos F.; Douxchamps, Sabine; Teufel, Nils; Singh, Dhiraj; Mutie, Ianetta; Ndiwa, Nicholas; Ndungu, Anthony; Kiplimo, Jasper; Herrero, Mario, 2014, "Impact Lite Dataset - Rakai".

## Methodology
----
Not Available

## Data Policy
----
*Access Authority*: 
Silvia Silvestri
email: s.silvestri@cgiar.org

*Contacts*:
Silvia Silvestri
email: s.silvestri@cgiar.org

*Confidentiality*: 
This is a publicly accessible data set 

*Access Conditions*:  
This data is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 

*Citation Requirement*:  
We would like to aknwoledge that we used IMPACTlite dataset for this study. IMPACTlite was implemented through the support of CRP7 (CCAFS - Climate Change Agriculture and Food Security) under the leadership of the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI)

*Right & Disclaimer*: 
NA

## Other Information
----
aWhere has taken some data cleaning steps to make this data available in the  Dev aWhere [platform](2). 

### Data Cleaning
The original dataset included 23 datafiles and 29 lookup files containing information about enumerated values. The questionnaire was provided through a pdf document and a xml document exported from a data collection instrument (CSPro Tool). The data cleaning process involved creating a sheet containing all of the enumerated values from the lookup files, as well as pulling some information from the xml survey document, in order to convert enumerated values into understandable text values. 

The data cleaning process also:

- Concatenated separate data files into one data file.  
- Converted the date variable into one common format; the raw data provided dates as number strings, e.g. 1062012 or 22062012, while the final data file uses Microsoft Excel standardized date formats.  
- Generated locations at the administrative 2 level; raw data provided location data in a UTM format without providing additional converting information. 

### Relevant Papers
NA

### Papers That Cite this Data Set
NA

## Data Quality Profile
----
Data Quality Profile will provide data map for data navigation within the aWhere platform, descriptive statistics, and data point distribution plot. 

### Data Map
You can use the data map to assist navigation within the aWhere platform. 
<script src="https://gist.github.com/immovable-ladder/f61700442df82546604f.js"></script>

### Descriptive Statistics
Here is a data distribution chart. 
<script src="https://gist.github.com/immovable-ladder/3a11208d34daac2e65c6.js"></script>


[1]: http://data.ilri.org/portal/dataset/implite-rakai "Impact Lite Hoima"
[2]: http://apps.awhere.com/ "Dev aWhere"
